yum guide
testing add lines
How to Download and Install Yum Packages Locally
On CentOS, we sometimes need to install yum packages as RPMs locally because we may need them at a time when we don’t have internet access.

How to Download Yum Packages Locally
Option #1
I like to use yum-downloadonly to download packages locally.

yum install yum-plugin-downloadonly
Make a directory where you will download the RPMs.

mkdir /nfs
Now, we use –downloadonly to download all the RPMs of the package and its dependencies into the /nfs directory.

yum install git -y --downloadonly --downloaddir=/nfs
ls /nfs
git-1.7.1-4.el6_7.1.x86_64.rpm
If you think that you have already installed the files, you should use reinstall:

yum reinstall git -y --downloadonly --downloaddir=/nfs
Option #2
A second option is to use yumdownloader. I prefer Option #1 though.

yum install yum-utils
yumdownloader git
How to Install Yum Downloaded Packages Locally
Change directory to where all the .rpm’s are stored. Yum downloader downloads the packages and dependencies as .rpm’s.

cd /nfs
Install all the RPM packages locally:

yum --nogpgcheck localinstall *.rpm

Using yum to download packages without installing them
BY SHUSAIN · PUBLISHED SEPTEMBER 28, 2017 · UPDATED MARCH 12, 2018

In this tutorial, we are going to discuss about how we can use yum to download packages without actually installing it on our server. I recently discovered this option & thought that I share with all of you guys. But before we actually discuss the option let’s talk in brief about yum.

Yum aka Yellowdog Updater Modified, is the default packet manger for RHEL\CentOS. It has a number of options that can be used to with it to fetch information, install or uninstall the packages. We have discussed quite a few options in our article WORKING WITH YUM (with examples) , so please read it to get to know yum in a detail.

Now let’s start with the main part of the tutorial i.e. how we can yum to download packages without installing/updating it on our server. There are two methods to do this,

1- Using ‘yumdownloader’

2- Using ‘downloadonly’ plugin

Process for both is different, so let’s start with it.

 

1- Using ‘yumdownloader’
If we need to download an installed package, than we first need to install ‘yumdownloader’ on our system. Yumdownloader is part of ‘yum-utils’ package,

$ sudo yum install yum-utils

After the package has been installed, we can now use yumdownloader to download the required package,

$ sudo yumdownloader httpd

The downloaded package will be available in the same directory that the command was executed.

 

2- Using ‘downloadonly’ plugin with yum
To use ‘downloadonly’ plugin with yum, we will firstly install the plugin using yum,

$ sudo yum install yum-downloadonly

Now after installing the plugin, execute the following command to download the required package,

$ sudo yum install –downloadonly –downloaddir=/root/Desktop httpd

We can change the location of download directory to something else as well but if we will not provide the ‘downloaddir’ option , then downloaded files will be sent to ‘/var/cache/yum/ in rhel-{arch}-channel/packages’ directory. Also we can download multiple packges in single command.

To download a specified version of the package, mention the full package name like ‘httpd-2.2.15-60.el6.centos.5.x86_64.rpm’.
